## The World Of The Circumpolar

The stories and recurring characters appearing in this repository all share a common invented world, dubbed "The Circumpolar": a projected future history _ca._ 2560 Gregorian. The name derives from the common recognition that the centers of civilized life have shifted northward, in the wake of the severe global warming spike of the 21st-23rd centuries; and that the Polar (Arctic) Ocean is the maritime crossroads of the world. This commonly inhabitedregion of the Earth has a precedent in the [Ecumene](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ecumene) of classical antiquity. The inhabitants all have a general knowledge of each other, and it's possible, although often dangerous, for an intrepid traveller to visit any desired region. Further south, conditions become more forbidding; there is an Antarctic equivalent to the Circumpolar, but it is in general out of reach. Many tales of fantastic lands are spun around it: it's often the equivalent of Prester John's Kingdom, or Barsoom, in the fables and fanciful literature of the time.

This created world is devoid of elements of counterfactual adjustments to reality: in other words, it's not "fantasy" as the genre is ordinarily understood. I have no objection to fantasy: in fact, it's my preferred mode of fiction, as writer and reader. However, this world was created in response to John Michael Greer's ["Space Bats" Contest](http://thearchdruidreport.blogspot.com/2014/01/return-of-space-bats.html), which, among other constraints, explicitly stated that we couldnae change the laws of physics. The constraints, as is so very often the case, proved to be creatively fruitful. [The Borax Road Affair](https://github.com/whblondeau/memoria-interna/blob/master/stories/the-borax-road-affair/the-borax-road-affair.md) has been accepted for publication. Hopefully it will not be the last tale of the Circumpolar to see light of day.

Constructing background material for a carefully considered world is a prolonged effort, and beyond a certain point it's sometimes pleasant to invite others to contribute. The background material concerning history, geography, and human cultures of the Circumpolar world has been moved to its own repository, [https://github.com/whblondeau/circumpolar](https://github.com/whblondeau/circumpolar). Unlike the current repository, which is published under copyright, the Circumpolar repository is licensed under a slightly modified Creative Commons Attribution License.

In other words, anyone who cares is cordially invited to use the background material as a basis for creative work of their own. There's an awful lot of room up there.
